# Practica Kaggle APC UAB 2022-23

### Nombre: Anthony Michael Alonso

### DATASET: **Solar Power Generation Data**

### URL: [dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/anikannal/solar-power-generation-data?resource=download&select=Plant_1_Weather_Sensor_Data.csv)

## Summary
The dataset primarily contains numeric data. The only features that are non-numeric are:
- **DATE_TIME**
- **PLANT_ID**
- **SOURCE_KEY**

A view of the dataset features and what they represent:

#### Plant x: Generation Data
- **DATE_TIME**: Date and time for each observation, recorded at 15 minute intervals.

- **PLANT_ID**: ID of the plant. This is obviously common throughout the file for a given plant.

- **SOURCE_KEY**: ID of the inverter. There are multiple inverters in a plant.

- **DC_POWER**: Amount of DC power, in $ kW $, generated by the inverter in the 15 minute interval.

- **AC_POWER**: Amount of AC power, in $ kW $, generated by the ivnerter in the 15 minute interval.

- **DAILY_YIELD**: Cumulative sum of power, in $ kW $, generated by the plant on the given day.

- **TOTAL_YIELD**: Total power generated by the given inverter up until the given point in time.


#### Plant x: Weather Sensor Data
- **DATE_TIME**: Date and time for each observation, recorded at 15 minute intervals.

- **PLANT_ID**: ID of the plant. This is obviously common throughout the file for a given plant.

- **SOURCE_KEY**: ID of the inverter. There are multiple inverters in a plant.

- **AMBIENT_TEMPERATURE**: Ambient temperature, in $ ^\circ C $, at the plant at the given time.

- **MODULE_TEMPERATURE**: Temperature reading of the solar panel attached to the sensor panel at the given time.

- **IRRADIATION**: Amount of irradiation, $ W/m^2 $ for the 15 minute interval.

### Objective
The main objective is to predict the amount of power produced by each plant, based on the given data, using machine learning models.

## Experiments

### Preprocessing
Steps taken in the data preprocessing stage:
- convert DATE_TIME feature to datetime instances
- add DATE and TIME features to data for posterior analysis
- check for null values
- get general information about the plants and their inverters
- discover correlations between features

### Models
| **Model**                  | **Type**     | **Independent Variable (if univariate)** | **R^2 score (plant 1)** | **R^2 score (plant 2)** |
|----------------------------|--------------|------------------------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|
| Linear Regression          | Univariate   | AMBIENT_TEMPERATURE                      | 0.495                   | 0.317                   |
| Linear Regression          | Univariate   | MODULE_TEMPERATURE                       | 0.911                   | 0.562                   |
| Linear Regression          | Univariate   | IRRADIATION                              | 0.983                   | 0.610                   |
| Linear Regression          | Multivariate | N/A                                      | 0.983                   | 0.615                   |
| Huber Regression           | Multivariate | N/A                                      | 0.983                   | 0.469                   |
| Decision Tree Regressor    | Multivariate | N/A                                      | 0.989                   | 0.667                   |
| Decision Tree Regressor v2 | Multivariate | N/A                                      | N/A                     | 0.755                   |

## Demo
The notebook is already run, with all graphs and data shown.

## Conclusions
Here are the conclusions we can extract from our dataset:
- Although both plants have the same amount of inverters, plant 1 is more stable than plant 2 in terms of power output.

- As a result, power output at plant 2 is more difficult to predict.

- The cause of the unstableness of power output at plant 2 is unknown. It would probably be worth the investment to clean and/or replace the sensors, after which, if gathered data continues to behave erratically, replace the solar panel itself.

- Plant 2 is in a warmer location than plant 1. This is evident from the graphs of ambient temperature per hour; the ambient temperature in plant 2 is consistently ~10% higher than that of plant 1.

- The dataset is quite small; we only have data gathered over a 1 month period. This is not exactly ideal and has at least two negative implications:
  - The models will most likely fail when used with data gathered from other seasons. Because the dataset is only from a 1 month period during summer, we cannot expect the model to perform well in fall, spring, or winter.
  - The models we can use are limited; we can't use anything like deep learning models or neural networks. If we had more data, we'd be able to test out other models that rely on large amounts of data to work properly.